Some market participants have
really underscored
this difference,
this distinction between adding
operational efficiency or,
to some degree, democratizing of
MLS style listings or disruption.
Some say that what has led
to the situation today,
the legacy pathway of
real estate technology
only recently has led to
disruption instead of
emphasizing what I would call it
incremental efficiency or
operational improvements.
Recently, two venture
capitalist from
the firm Trinity
Ventures wrote the
following on a blog and I
thought it was well-phrased,
"Technology has upended
every major industry
with one exception: real estate.
Instead of completely disrupting
the sector," my emphasis
added there.
"The last generation of
this technology primarily
improved existing processes
and platforms."
Certain industry leaders
like the ones that
we've discussed,
for example Zillow,
Trulia and LoopNet,
Redfin, Realtor.com, and others,
help us search for homes,
commercial real estate,
better, faster,
with greater reach and
efficiency but it
doesn't necessarily
change the underlying
economic characteristic
that the industry is based on.
What are we buying?
What do we leasing?
Whom are we doing it from?
Those of traditional players,
through brokers or buying
the same real estate,
we're selling the same
real estate and so on.
The next generation.
However, the proffer,
is more likely to take
an expansive approach,
dismantling systems,
reimagine what it means
to live and to work.
You could even suggest
that firms like Airbnb
are really real
estate technologies
and I wouldn't necessarily
disagree with that.
They would thus say,
I would presume that
the disruptive state is
now upon us and we'll see
much more of that in the
present and going
forward where there
are fundamental shifts in
how we conduct ourselves,
where, and how we live in
where and how we work.